Exercise 4: Definitions, definitions

Which definition of AI do you like best? How would you define AI?

Let's first scrutinize the following definitions that have been proposed earlier:

"cool things that computers can't do"
machines imitating intelligent human behavior
autonomous and adaptive systems
Your task:

Do you think these are good definitions? Consider each of them in turn and try to come up with things that they get wrong - either things that you think should be counted as AI but aren't according to the definition, or vice versa. Explain your answers by a few sentences per item (so just saying that all the definitions look good or bad isn't enough).
Also come up with your own, improved definition that solves some of the problems that you have identified with the above candidates. Explain with a few sentences how your definition may be better than the above ones.
Please read the above instructions carefully and answer both of the items above in the text box below. Your answer will be reviewed by other users and by the instructors. Please answer in English, and check your answer before clicking 'Submit' because once submitted, you can no longer edit your answer.

Note: On using ChatGPT and similar models: We appreciate you putting an AI tool into use. Feel free to consult it but note that since we are interested in your own opinion, we expect you to write your final answers yourself.


Your answer:

The definitions describe AI very well, and I think "autonomous and adaptive systems" is the best fit out of these three.


Example answer

There is no right or wrong answer, but here’s what we think:

“Cool things that computers can't do"

The good: this adapts to include new problems in the future, captures a wide range of AI such computer vision, natural language processing.

The bad: it rules out any "solved" problems, very hard to say what counts as "cool".

“Machines imitating intelligent human behavior”

The good: the same as in the previous. Also, imitate is a good word since it doesn't require that the AI solutions should "be" intelligent (whatever it means) and it's instead enough to act intelligently.

The bad: the definition is almost self-referential in that it immediately leads to the question what is 'intelligent', also this one is too narrow in the sense that it only includes human-like intelligent behavior and excludes other forms of intelligence such as so-called swarm intelligence (intelligence exhibited by for example ant colonies).

“Autonomous and adaptive systems”

The good: it highlights two main characteristics of AI, captures things like robots, self-driving cars, and so on, also nicely fits machine learning-based AI methods that adapt to the training data.

The bad: once again, these lead to further questions and the definition of 'autonomous' in particular isn't very clear (is a vacuum cleaner bot autonomous? How about a spam filter?). Furthermore, not all AI systems need to be autonomous and we can in fact often achieve much more by combining human and machine intelligence.


Your answer has been accepted!

You may still give peer reviews to help others

Received peer reviews:

Your answer has received 2 peer reviews. The average grade of received reviews is 3.00.
